From a relatively young age, more specifically in the 5th grade, I was introduced to computer science and have been interested in its nature ever since. From that point onwards, I began to employ my technical skills in programming to construct and engineer computer softwares, e.g., video games with Unity C#, mobile application development with Java, as well as website development with HTML, CSS, JS and PHP. My fascination with algorithms, automation, and computers in general would inevitably lead me to the phenomenon of Artificial Intelligence (AI) and its two subcomponents: Machine Learning (ML) and Natural Language Processing (NLP). A first encounter with these specified aspects of computer science conveniently originated from my affinity with video games, ranging from the adamant classic of Nintendo’s Super Mario Bros to modern mobile games including Moonton’s Mobile Legends. Bowser from the original franchise, and the bots that take over players whom were AFK within the MOBA, were nonetheless technical manifestations of AI. Witnessing these human-programmed, nonhuman entities able to recognize patterns within the games – and respond to stimuli accordingly – was very much intruguing. Not to mention, I have also been similarly interested upon the versatility of voice assistant AI’s, e.g., Siri and Alexa, amid the Fourth Industrial Revolution. Consequently, I possess the desire to program my own, personal AI within the form of a voice assistant for the Personal Project – and hence the materialization of said learning goal.

My objective in achieving this product goal would revolve around my aim to integrate both ML and NLP to automate pragmatic processes which would be undertaken by an average mobile device user. By condensing the aim to a product in the form of a mobile application, I would be able to actualize my learning goal through a manifestable and feasible medium such that it would prove to be relevant and useful for a scope of target audiences. With the global context of “Scientific and Technical Innovation” as the backbone of the product goal, I intend to exemplify my skills in programming and software to engineer the AEVA mobile application from scratch.

Based on the success criteria for the AI-based mobile application, I broke down the product into six components: target audience, aesthetics, function, user interface, voice recognition, as well as program used and materials. Initial research to construct the overall structure of the application would also be conducted such that the criteria can be appropriately defined. The research process would also yield the degree of quality that the product’s standards should be able to comply with, ensuring that they were both challenging yet achievable. Furthermore, designing the success criteria rubric to effectively illustrate the requirements of the product allowed for a concrete alignment of product assembly, i.e., how the product can implement aesthetical peripherals to attain its intended function – this would provide me with a rigorous concept to scaffold around, and hence initialized the drafting phase prior to programming the application itself.

Target Audience: defining a set of clients and clientele whom would benefit from the product established a thorough build-path such that constituents of the application are reconciled for the said demographic; measured through means of client testing, justified through professional and expert opinion – given that the nicheness of AI requires for experts within the field to most accurately generate meaningful feedback and criticism.

Aesthetics: overall and detailed perspectives of visual appearance aid in the provision of a robust initial design for the product, complete with specified aesthetical peripherals to indicate function and appeal; observed through the client testing phase as well as self-evaluation. The appeal of the criteria will revolve upon visual and readable components, e.g., titles, text, images, containers, buttons, and their ability to effectively uplift the product’s entire theme and interest towards the target audience.

Function: description of the technical features in which attained through user activity, i.e., how the AI can perceive commands, strengthens the objective of the application with means of interactivity; measured through self-evaluation and justified through means of code debugging, test-runs, threshold of perceiving (NLP), as well as the accuracy of the output response (ML).

User Interface: a systematic approach in denoting various components presented within a standard application UI, where the internal design and page-logic, i.e., splash screen, main screen, and settings screen, was delineated as separate, but complementary components within a build context; observed through means of client testing, expert opinion, and self-evaluation, more specifically in correspondence to the available scenes in the application.

Voice Recognition: explicitly depicting how the voice recognition plugin functions in correspondence to the overall technical objective of the product would significantly clarify how NLP semantics are constructed, and how a speech-to-text version is identified as accurate; observed through self-evaluation in regards to the accuracy rate of the NLP utility, otherwise known as level of confidence in the speech-to-text plugin.

Program Used and Materials: establishes a specific framework the product is constructed upon – this characterizes the voice assistant AI’s backend programming state and frontend UI scaffold – given that the target audience are mobile device users of the two largest operating systems: Android OS and iOS; measured through self-evaluation and justification of the utilized programs, programming languages, and publication methods.

To moreover justify the factor of achievability within a pragmatic consensus, I organized a general, linear timeline for the entire project within an action plan. Each of the specific tasks was allotted towards a manifestable time-period which would ultimately indicate the plan – be it research, drafting, or product assembly – such that the process can be confined systematically. As a whole, the timeline within the action plan spans from the 28th of August to the 12th of January, i.e., from the initiation of the MYP Personal Project to the submission of the final product and report draft. In terms of the requirements delineated within the to-do list, I incorporated vital elements from the success criteria and synthesized them with practical operations. For example, the background research I conducted prior to voice recognition systems focalizes upon up to 3 relevant success criteria: voice recognition, function, and program used – where such integration within the action plan clarified what components of the product should and will be achieved.

Another predominant element of the action plan was embedded upon how the learning goal is induced via the completion of the product goal. As each compartment within the table factors in how the voice assistant AI can be realistically assembled, it also highlights how I am able to obtain new information regarding to the different peripherals of Artificial Intelligence: Machine Learning, Natural Language Processing, Voice Recognition; and reforming my skills in mobile-app development.

With a learning goal of integrating Artificial Intelligence with software, and improving in mobile-app development in general, I employed research skills to gather information primarily from secondary sources – as the internet is an exemplary medium for computer science-based schemas, construct a research plan to centralize upon a research question and store attained information, and conduct an OPVL analysis of the utilized sources to justify their cogency. In order to effectively complete these actualizations of applying research skills, I would furthermore validate and evaluate the state of my research, particularly the research plan, such that it could be of accordance to the aspects within the success criteria; this allowed for a two-step authentication maneuver in the affirmation of sources.

Based on the constructed research plan above, I primarily focalized upon 5 distinct sources in which serving as one of the most imperative peripherals to the entire prospect of learning the fundamentals upon construct an AI within a mobile application: programming Artificial Intelligence, voice assistant sample project, the Flutter SDK, the Dart programming language, and object-oriented programming.

When gathering information in basis of the learning goal, I utilized research skills to competently differentiate relevant information from ones that may be of a lesser importance. To do so, I oriented the excerpt within the denoted 5 sources through the research question: “How to integrate Machine Learning (ML) and Natural Language Processing (NLP) within an artificial intelligence computer program, and condense the software into a mobile application?” As there were two specific, yet analogous main components to the query – Machine Learning and Natural Language Processing, I had to separately take these compartments into account before declaring a source as rudimentary to the notion of a voice assistant AI.

From the first source within the excerpt, it was stated that programming an Artificial Intelligence program with voice commands require a particular component of NLP – Natural Language Understanding or NLU – to coherently design for a backend convention. I would also confine information as such into the scaffolding process, where the general understanding of NLP semantics as retrieved from the source can be furthermore applied to realistic sequences – such as learning how to program the AI software itself. Another key source uplifted the details of the Flutter software development kit as an open-source framework for constructing desktop and mobile applications with cross-platform technology. As the Flutter SDK by Google LLC was the engine utilized to develop the mobile application and ML algorithm in particular, this segment of the research plan would ultimately prove as useful in terms of learning a novel and contemporary method of mobile-app development – given that I have never encountered the said framework prior.

In correspondence to the manufactured research plan, I would also utilize my research skills by validating these predominantly extracted sources via an OPVL analysis, i.e., inspecting the origins, purposes, values, and limitations of the sources. By reviewing the inherent properties of the garnered sources, I can effectively classify the imminent relevancy of each of the provided notions with a structured approach. Sources which are considered both relevant and useful were what most fundamentally fuels the learning process during the entirety of the project, where the said OPVL analysis of the 5 most relevant sources I could find as articles and documentation justified the overall research process and product assembly.

From the OPVL analysis, I managed to extract background intelligence that were taken into account for during the implementation of said resources. From the second source based on the excerpt, I approached the article systematically: authenticating the author and publisher, deriving the purpose and intent, and longevity of value – where I noticed that the author managed to develop a tutorial upon constructing a fundamental AI program in Python with easily-understood logic structure behind the utilized framework.

Today, I determined my learning and product goal. Based on my personal interests and fascinations about computer science, artificial intelligence, as well as mobile application development, I was able to fortify my framework in the fulfilment of the learning and product goals.

When determining my learning and product goal, the primary challenges in which are tackled are of the following: efficiently transforming my interests into goals as well as adjusting the difficulty and achievability of goals. To efficiently delineate my goals through personal interests, it was crucial to brainstorm the possible phenomena and including particular ones such that it was most suitably correspondent to the intrinsic requirements of the Personal Project. Furthermore, to initialize an appropriate level of difficulty and achievability, I managed to evaluate my experience in computer science and construct something familiar – whilst invoking a sense of novelty.

Today, I completed the first meeting with the supervisor. During this meeting, we discussed the instantiation of the learning and product goal and its degree of applicability within a real-life context, i.e. factors of challenge, relevance, achievability, etc. From the discussion, the main points extracted were that of to reinforce the specifications within the product assembly process, whilst implementing the notion of both the learning and product goal to achieve a solution. Additionally, we also discussed prior to the initialization of the success criteria as well as an action plan, such that certain requirements can be actualized within the construction of the AI program.

The components which revolved around the product and learning goal, as enunciated within the meeting itself, requires very intricate and structured details such that the product assembly process is rigorous, concrete, and straightforward. Due to this, organizational skills must be prioritized such that the product could attain the requirements and standards as assorted within both the success criteria and action plan. In terms of progress, I am able to determine the scope of achievability within the product, where both elements of pragmatism and challenge are present in regards to the AI voice assistant program called AEVA; this would ultimately allow for the focalization of the product assembly process in itself.

To obtain background information about Artificial Intelligence as well as ML and NLP in specific, I gathered useful information through a number of secondary sources. From the obtained key resources and references, I am able to utilize this relevant information to construct a concrete research plan that underlines the fundamental questions to be answered by the sources.

After constructing the research plan, I was able to synthesize the utilized sources, in correspondence to the research questions as well as complementary research questions, such that only rigorous and compatible information were extracted from the sources. From the research plan itself, it is evident that six major components of criteria were approached as potential aspects of product assembly that were specific, measurable, achievable, realistic, and time-bound. Hence, the success criteria would revolve around these critical components prior to the execution of several pragmatic actions in order to strengthen the product-construction process.

Based on the success criteria, the six major components of target audience, aesthetics, function, user-interface, voice recognition, as well as program used and materials were delineated, where this would consequently correspond to the research and action plan for the development of a mobile application. For the construction of the success criteria, some aspects of the design cycle as well as the investigation phase of the Personal Project cycle were involved, where these specifications will ultimately prove to be useful in scaffolding. In order to incorporate the elements of the success criteria themselves into the product assembly procedure, the action plan would be constructed to definitely structure and scrutinize gathered information and aspects to a sequence of events.

In terms of the action plan, it would implement a general timeline from August to January, where this would ultimately reflect the Personal Project time period that would revolve around the product success criteria. Specific to-do’s were also highlighted in order to specify for the requirements that should be accomplished within the semester timeline. Additionally, this would be subsequently helpful in tracking the progress of the product-assembly process in itself, as certain task boundaries are initialized such that time-management skills are uplifted throughout the construction phase.

When constructing the research plan, the main obstacles which hinder success were the excavation of particularly relevant, yet reliable information that emerged from justifiable primary and secondary sources. As for the construction of the success criteria, the main challenge was to sufficiently specify details and specifications that were not only relevant to the research plan, but can also be testified by the action plan, where its encapsulation within the product-assembly phase is inadvertently crucial. In terms of the action plan, the challenge to be considered were the allocation or allotment of scarce resources, where this would correspond to the assets as well as time-taken to complete certain phases of the project within the timeline. Due to this, all of the actions that are to be conducted within the construction phase must be achievable, suitable, and sufficiently substantial in order to complete the product upon the given time-boundaries. For the progress, I felt that I was able to manage my time quite effectively when constructing both the success criteria and action plan, which were nonetheless the two most important planning components of the Personal Project cycle. However, I must further pick up the pace during the construction phase such that the components that were specified within the success criteria as well as the task specifications within the action plan can be fulfilled.